Welcome back to the deal. I'm Jason
Kelly.
>> I'm Alex Rodriguez.
>> And coming up, Emanuel Acho. He played
in the NFL. He knows a lot about the
business of big football. He is a media
personality. He's got a new show called
Speak Easy. We're going to get into all
of it. He is the perfect guest. I'm so
excited. Jason, when we came up with
this show a couple years ago, he is the
epitome of what we were thinking about,
sports, media, culture. He speaks at a
very high level. He's also going to tell
us why the NFL is king and getting
bigger and bigger. He brings a lot of
energy, so get ready. Coming up, Emanuel
Ao.
We're here in Los Angeles with Emanuel
Acho, someone, Alex, who when we think
about this show is just right there,
right at this intersection that we love
of business, uh, sports and culture in
part because of the NFL. So, first of
all, welcome. Thank you.
>> We're so happy to have you here.
>> Glad to be here.
>> Yeah. So, great to have you on the show.
My my first question right off the top
has to be the NFL. Now, I'm coming from
the lens of I'm right in the midst of my
October media with Fox and doing my
coverage for the for the playoffs and
World Series and everything the NFL
does, it works big. Now, I remember in
2004 when we played the Red Sox, we were
getting 25, 30, 35 million people
watching.
>> Today is a fraction of that.
>> The NFL keeps getting bigger. So you're
like 10x bigger than us. What is the
secret sauce of the NFL magic? What is
it?
>> I think the biggest thing is the NFL
never overextended. The NFL made sure
like as the viewers grew, it extended
the games in parallel to the viewers
growing. I think the NFL probably better
than any other sports industry has
matched demand with supply. Whereas you
could suggest the MLB, you could suggest
the NBA, so much supply, but not
necessarily that much demand. like 82
NBA games, we don't watch all of them
anymore. Baseball, now we obviously care
in October, but the dilemma is there's
so much supply, it doesn't directly
correlate to the demand. Whereas the
NFL, bro, when you only have 16 of them,
and now there's 17 of them as of the
last four years, everyone matters. And I
think what's missed and not talked about
enough is fans are a reflection of the
players.
>> If the players care, the fans care. If
the players don't care, the fans don't
care. In the NFL, all of the players
care about every single game. In part
because our contracts aren't guaranteed.
In secondary part, there's only so many
games. The fan is simply a mirror and
whatever the player does, the fan
reflects back onto the player. And
that's I would suggest the secret sauce
of the NFL. To that point about
scarcity,
the
the fascinating thing about the NFL is
it still finds all these ways to be in
our lives all the time. So, you're
right. You're totally right. 17 games
and yet
>> the NFL draft, the NFL combat, like it
it has become like all the all this like
really really rich content. So, how are
they doing that? Right.
>> The NFL has done a great job making
everything feel big. the NFL draft. It
used to be in what? Radio City Music
Hall. That felt big. And then when the
deal with Radio City Music Hall fell
apart, they were like, you know what?
We're going to make it a spectacle.
We're going to move from one city to
another. And they've done a great job of
not going to cities with a lot of
distractions. Make them feel iconic.
Super Bowl, you're going to have a mega
star celebrity performing there. We joke
half the time that it's a Beyonce
concert at a football game, right? You
know what I mean?
I think the NFL does such a good job
making it feel big. But then again,
>> when you have less events, you can make
them all feel big.
>> You can't make every baseball game feel
big. It's too many of them.
>> It's such an interesting point about the
I mean, the halftime show, it's like,
you know, Bad Bunny being announced to
perform like dominated the news cycle
for like three days.
>> And bro, think about for a second
>> last year's Super Bowl. It leveraged a
cultural beef that had nothing to do
with the sport of football,
>> right? It had nothing to do with
Kendrick Lamar and Drake. Exactly.
Right. Like it leveraged a completely
different uh uh entity than the actual
game itself, which we don't see that
often enough in other sports.
>> Well, I'll give you the the best one
that's been the biggest number we've
done over the last 50 years
>> has been World Series 09 game two right
before the game. Here comes Alicia Keys
and Jay-Z
>> Empire State of Mind. That song was very
much synonymous with our season and that
team,
>> but it was a magical moment
>> and we've never done it again since last
year with I I think it was it Fat Joe
and uh
>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But that's a
really good point. I I think if you can
find a way to leverage another industry
or to leverage somebody else's success
that I think is how you can create more
success. There's not enough like
discussion outside of the games. There's
the sports shows that are going on daily
that are driving people because of
storylines. Yeah. Caitlyn Clark Angel
Ree is you have heroes, you have
villains, you have villains to some, you
have heroes to other that drives
viewership. Caitlyn's a great basketball
player. It's not that alone. It's the
story lines. And I think in baseball
last year it was popping because we had
well we had Yankees Dodgers if I'm not
mistaken. You had story lines. You had
iconic franchises, iconic brands. You
had Show. You had Judge. You had story
lines. I don't think we have that enough
in baseball and I don't think we have
that enough in basketball either because
everybody's also all buddy buddy in
basketball.
>> Yeah. Before we move on from the NFL, I
I have to ask you about sort of one of
the mega sort of deal points which is
new money coming in private equity
ownership. You know, this is Bloomberg
after all. We look so much at that the
valuation sort of just climbing and
climbing and climbing. What do you make
of of money coming in as a former
player, as someone who watches this game
so closely? What's the net effect that
it's having?
>> I'm looking at everything from a player
standpoint first and foremost. And so,
one, the contracts are going crazy. You
know what I mean? Like back in the day
when I was leaving the NFL in 2015,
highest paid players were probably
making 25 26 million a year. Jimmy
Garopppolo went to the 49ers and was the
highest paid quarterback, I believe, at
$28 million a year. Now, Dak Prescott's
making $60 million a year.
>> You know what I mean? So, the very first
thing I'm taking a look at is is just
the the number in the contracts. The
second thing is eventually there's going
to be a rub.
>> And there's going to be a rub because at
the point in time you have that new CBA
and players are going to start to look
around and say, "Hold on a second now.
All these billions of dollars in TV
revenue, I want mine."
>> Yeah.
>> And so, that's the second thing. Always
looking from a players perspective at
the rub. But I think lastly, it's cool
to see the NFL continuing to grow at
such an exponential rate.
>> Yeah.
>> And now I just want to see like how can
we get more diversity and ownership?
>> And what do you suggest for that?
>> Man, the first thing is I love how
people are pulling together. It's no
longer just like one family and y'all
are exclusively owning it. I love how
it's like, hey, no, we're going to bring
in this this office and this office
might have a couple different names on
it.
>> I mean, one of my great mentors is Jerry
Risinorf. The days of him buying the
Bulls for 16 million and the White Tucks
for 19
>> are long gone. I mean, these numbers are
gotten so big that you need groups to
come.
>> You need groups. And I also think now
athletes can know what's possible. You
know what I mean? What you've done with
Minnesota, now athletes can know it's
possible. Before you can ever be
something, you got to see something. You
feel me? Like thinking about owning a
team was what? How? But now that we've
seen different athletes do it, even, you
know, I'm trying to do different things
by owning different WNBA teams and and
getting in different um uh uh groups to
own WNBA teams cuz I'm like, now that
I've seen different individuals do it,
all right, Acho, like it's possible. Go
make it possible for you.
>> So ownership is on your wish list.
>> Absolutely. But it has to be intelligent
ownership.
>> Okay.
>> To your point, I mean, the reason why
I'm an owner today is because of Magic
Johnson. I grew up in an environment
where it was men of color were either
street or they were athletes and I
wanted to be an athlete. Magic was the
first one that I said, "Oh, wow. Here's
a man of color who is wear little short
shorts in the court and then wears a
pinstripe suit in the boardroom and is a
Hall of Famer in both. If he can do it,
why not me?"
>> Yeah.
>> And that woke me up for that.
>> That's beautiful because I think
especially people of color and all
people, but speaking me individually,
I've seen different things. The reason
my my my first email no longer active so
I can't get spammed was Nigerian
nightmare08 atyahoo.com because
Christian Aoy running back for the
Chiefs went by the Nigerian nightmare
>> and my parents are Nigerian I'm Nigerian
and so like I saw that and I said okay I
want to be that
>> and the same I believe can be applied in
business the same has been applied in TV
and everything I'm doing now is like
wait once you see it you can be it now
the trick is you don't just have to see
it in one specific industry like you
didn't say I'm going to go own an NFL
team hell Oh, you went to basketball,
went to the D, you know what I mean?
Went to all these different things. So
seeing it is so so so important.
>> Yeah. So I I want to go back to football
for a second if we can. And and speaking
of money, University of Texas,
college football, we are I think it's
fair to say, Alex, obsessed with college
football. Help us understand this. I
mean, you're watching this so closely.
You're watching it through your alma
mater, especially uh Texas Arch Manning,
that whole scene. How do you start to
unpack the business that is big-time
college football at this point?
>> I remember being in high school and my
senior year in high school, somebody
that was in the NFL walked up to me and
he said, "Enjoy this last game because
this is the last time you'll get to play
for fun."
>> Oh, wow.
>> He said, "Once you leave here, it's a
business." And that was before NIL was
even involved. Now, I will say this,
NIL, without the restrictions of the
transfer portal, in my mind, it ruined
college football.
>> Ruined it. I do believe college football
was always an unofficial business. So,
make it official so the players can get
paid. I went back to University of Texas
two years after I graduated. I walked
into the co-op. That's where they sell
different uh gear and jerseys. And I saw
an 18 jersey by 81 jersey. Why the hell
you see an 18 by an 81 jersey in the
co-op. Oh, Emanuel Acha wore number 18
and Samcha wore number 81. They were
selling our jerseys without selling our
jerseys.
>> Yeah,
>> I'm not getting no profit from it. My
brother and I took a picture by it. I
still have it to this day in case I need
to file a lawsuit. Um, so like I'm not
getting no money from that. And so I
love now that players can actually be
compensated for their name, for their
image, for their likeness. Cuz people
don't realize I couldn't work in college
because if you work in college, you
could end up getting sued in the event
you get paid. And they start to look
into, well, you're getting paid more
than what you're working for. So now
athletes aren't even allowed to work
period, whether you're working
>> right or working unjustly.
>> So I like what the NIL is doing.
However, NIL without restrictions in the
transfer portal have completely
perverted college football
>> because essentially it's unlimited free
agency and you're you're just getting
bit up and you see I mean you watch a
game even the broadcasters they're like
this guy started here then he went here
then he went here then he I mean it's
often two three four teams that a player
has played for. Is the solution to
restrict the portal? What how do you fix
this? You restrict a portal, you fix
everything. Because once you restrict a
portal, once you go somewhere, you need
to stay at that place at least for a
year. And if you transfer, there has to
be some restrictions as you sit out a
year, you sit out two years. That's how
it was when I was in college. If you
transfer within the conference, you got
to sit two years. If you transfer out of
conference, you got to sit a year. You
ain't going nowhere, A-Rod. You ain't
going nowhere, JK. You sitting your butt
at Texas, and you better learn how to
get on the field.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, that's what I think needs to
happen because the dilemma right now is
I don't think you can serve both. I
don't think you can have a ton of fun in
college and make a lot of money. What
I've heard of players at Texas is and
the coaches has talked about the players
weren't having fun anymore. I said, I
don't pity them. They getting paper.
Yeah,
>> I had more fun, but I wasn't getting
broke off. You know what I mean? If you
are playing for money, it's very hard to
have fun cuz the second you start
sucking, you know, you losing money.
>> Hard to do both. I I don't know that you
can serve money and serve fun.
>> Yeah. So, let's talk about having less
fun. Jason just mentioned private equity
in the NFL and in sports broadly across
the globe, but specifically to the NCAA.
You went to Texas.
>> Yeah.
>> Is it a matter of time till Blackstone
and John Gray owns the Texas football
team and how far away from that?
>> I don't know if that would ever happen
because of the boards of regents. I
don't know if I don't know if that would
ever happen that anybody would come in
and own one of those big-time college
programs. Now
>> own you could unofficially do it.
>> You know what I mean? If you're one of
the biggest donors, if you're one of the
biggest investors, there were people at
Texas when I went there and they were
always at practice and I'm like, "Who
the hell is this dude?"
>> And then my friends would text me, "Oh
yeah, yeah, this dude oil and gas from
way back when." Like, "Yo, who the hell
is that? Why are they on a bus? Why they
on the team playing? They not a coach.
You know what I mean? Them big old
Texans walking around with a toothpick,
a little straw, a cowboy hat. Who is
this guy? Um, unofficially owned, sure.
Officially, no.
>> Or maybe a minority. You see a
Blackstone or KKR owning 20 30%. But the
board still runs it. But the finances
what they do is bring it infrastructure
back office sophistication because as
you mentioned as the business keeps
growing are the universities as today
are they currently built to you know
understand what the money's coming in
money's coming out now you have payroll.
It's an incredible trans transition.
>> I I think that could happen at the lower
scale that wouldn't happen at Texas
because at Texas is too many elbows to
grease.
>> You know what I mean? Like at Texas, we
not let nobody just walk in here and oh
no, not at Texas. You know what I mean?
Like not at Texas. Not to mention,
>> we're Texas and those big-time programs
like the U, they're so traditional. We
don't like nothing change. We wanted
black jerseys when I was in college, and
the amount of push back we got just to
change our jerseys was a hell no. This
is the way we do things. This is the way
we're always going to do things. So, at
somewhere like Texas, I don't see it
happening. at a smaller school, maybe
even a private school.
>> Yeah.
>> Then I could see it happening.
>> And yet you do see this the money coming
in because of the TV contracts.
>> So knowing what you know about media,
>> what would you where do you think NFL
games should play
>> like network?
>> Yeah.
>> Network, streamer, anything.
>> Streamers. I think one big bank takes
little bank. You know what I mean? A
streamer's got big big bank. And the
reason I would say streamers is the
games in Netflix can be watched all over
the world. You know what I mean? If you
got a game on Fox, you got a game on
ABC, you got a game on CBS, to some
degree that's limiting. In Nigeria, when
I go back during Christmas, I can't
necessarily watch that. I believe the
streamers have more reach. I also
believe the streamers have easier
barriers to entry. Oh, I just need the
app.
>> Yeah.
>> You know what I mean? There's just an
easier barrier to entry. So, I think the
streamers, the problem is the streamers
do not currently have the
infrastructure.
>> Y'all saw Netflix tried to do a couple
live sporting events. Things are
freezing. They don't have the right host
to do it. They don't have the people to
call the right games. They don't have
the right production quality. I mean,
they're outsourcing everything, not
realizing to put on a good product, you
have to have be a team. You have to be
molded together. You have to like like
like we've talked about in sports, like
you have to have camaraderie. But I do
think streamers would be ideal just
because it has the biggest reach.
>> So to that point, I mean, let's talk
about as we shift from sort of NFL and
and football to the media world. Talk
about your transition. Talk about, you
know, that moment where you're like,
"Okay, I'm done." You know, as so many
athletes in the in football are, you're
done at a young age.
>> Um, how'd you decide what to do next?
So, this might be my favorite part of
the conversation. Um, sitting across
from one of the greatest at what he ever
did athletically. Um, I was not humble
enough to acknowledge I was not. I
looked myself in the league, JK, I
looked myself in the eyes in the league,
A-Rod, and I said, "Okay, Acho, you're
not going to be a pro bowler. You're not
going to be a Hall of Famer. You're not
going to be an allp pro. You've played
four years in the NFL vested pension
annuity. Leave while you still have your
health." M
>> now what I did the oldest text message
in my phone to this date 2016 August
23rd it's a text from the Buffalo Bills
and the Buffalo Bills were like Emanuel
we want to bring you in for a workout
send us your social security number and
your license. I never responded. Why did
I save that text message? Cuz I wanted
to remind myself I walked away from the
NFL. The NFL didn't walk away from me.
Whether that's true or not, at least you
have a text message of an NFL team
asking you to come in for a workout of
which you rejected and you declined. Who
knows if they would have signed you, but
psychologically that helped me move
forward. Now, after moving forward,
where the hell are you gonna go?
>> How old were you?
>> 25 at the time.
>> I'm 25 at the time. I had been cut five
times by the age of 25. So, been cut
five times in the NFL by the age of 25.
It's time to move on. Okay. I go back to
Austin, Texas. That was home. I send an
email to every news director at every
local station in Austin. The news
director is uh essentially the owner, if
you will. Like, they make the decisions.
CBS, NBC, Fox, ABC, local stations in
Austin. I say, "Hey, I would love to
come on your network following Texas
football games and do a show, you know,
maybe Mondays with Manny, we can call it
Emanuel Manny." Mondays with Manny one
news director bit Pam Vot local station
in um in Austin, Texas, Fox 7. So, I
started doing Mondays with Manny.
Simultaneously, I'm born and raised in
Dallas, Texas. Uh huge Rangers fan. When
A-Rod was here, I vividly remember it.
I'm born and raised in Austin, Texas.
The Cowboys were creating a Twitter
show. I get an email from the head of
social for the Dallas Cowboys. Hey,
we're creating the show on Twitter. Do
you want to come do it? I'm like, well,
I need the money. I got the opportunity.
Okay, cool. So, now we're doing Fox 7
Austin. We're doing a show for the
Dallas Cowboys on Twitter. Longhorn
Network is a University of Texas's own
subsidiary. So, they were like, "Yo,
hey, can you do Longhorn Network games?"
I said, "Why not?" And I just did that
over over.
Finally, I get recognized after two
years. I get a call. Um, they want to
promote me nationally to ESPN. So now
I'm going to ESPN on on on Mondays and
Tuesdays to do Get Up. Now I'm now I've
made it to big time ESPN. ESPN all the
execs to get an email. Hey, we love this
dude in the pink suit. Who is he?
>> I'm the dude in the pink suit. The email
came from a guy named Bob Iger.
>> Ah, heard of him.
>> Iger sends an email to all the execs. I
love that guy in the pink suit. Happens
to be me,
>> CEO of Disney.
>> And that is how my sports media career
began.
>> Wow. I leave ESPN after two years
because Fox recruits me, hey, we want
you to essentially come host a show. And
I was like, uh, I could stay at ESPN and
be a guy or I could go to Fox and be the
guy. I'd rather be a big fish in a small
pond than a small fish in a big pond,
leave, go to Fox to become the guy. But,
interestingly enough, my sports career
actually sports TV career pad in
comparison to my cultural TV career.
>> Right. So, we're going to get to that in
a second, but I I want to go back just
to the very beginning of that, which was
sort of what inspired you that it's
like, I want to be on TV. Like, what
what was what was that? Was it something
you had done, something you had studied
in high school, in college? Like, what
was it that that great attracted that?
>> Uh, if I was good at math, I would have
been an accountant,
>> you know what I mean? But I was good at
television, so I went on TV. Grew up in
a My dad's a pastor. Yeah.
>> So, I grew up going to first service,
second service, and that third service
was the longest. But, I grew up going to
all three services. um in a church. And
so I heard speaking for a living. Yeah.
And so I knew how to put words together.
>> And all television is is for those that
are actually good at it is just figuring
out how to put words together. Se uh
analogies, you know what I mean?
Simileies, like can you tell stories
anecdotally? And so because I grew up
just capturing that through osmosis, I
said, "Let's go into TV." Yeah.
>> And then A-Rod JK, it's just sharpening
your sword.
>> Yeah.
>> Now it's just sharpening your sword. So
on television I do two things. I watch
Oprah Winfrey and I watch battle rap.
>> Watch those two things. Oprah and battle
rap. Oprah teaches me how to be an
interviewer. Battle rap teaches me how
to present. And so that was kind of like
my hidden secrets to the sauce of
television.
>> So e one of the things that I always
talk to young kids about and and even as
I go to universities, people always talk
about math and I have to be great at
math. And I actually say ironically one
of the best things you can do in
business is be a great communicator. So,
you have to be able to articulate. So,
you're halfway home, but you you talked
about you specifically, your father was
a preacher. Can you tell me specific
things that you learned about him
>> about what made him such a gifted
speaker? And are you more like him or
you more like mom or you're maybe a
little bit of a hybrid?
>> Um, a thousand% like dad. Dad came from
Nigeria to America with nothing in the
late 1970s. He was working at Taco Bell
uh and was working at a janitor and then
he got his undergrad degree and then he
got his doctorate degree after getting
his master's degree. So he has his own
private practice in psychology and so um
that started his own private practice in
Dallas and then remember he's a black
man with an accent that's about 5'9
talking like this now. So he's a black
man with an accent in the late 80s with
a doctorate degree. You know what I
mean? And so then
>> in Dallas, Texas
>> in Dallas, Texas.
And so really what I learned from dad
was a couple things. One a work ethic
that is unparalleled.
Two is how can you communicate in a
manner that makes someone able to
understand? I think one of our biggest
problems in society is we have too many
people that are receiver oriented as
opposed to speaker oriented. Speaker
oriented, it's my job to make sure A-Rod
and Jason know what I'm saying. Receiver
oriented, hey, we're putting the onus on
them to understand what the speaker's
saying. I'm a speaker oriented person at
all times. So, it is my job to make sure
I dumb something down as simple as
possible to make sure the receiver can
hear what I'm saying. And so, that's
what I try to do as a communicator. It's
like, okay, what's my avenue in? And so,
like, I have to figure out, and I feel
like we are all charged to figure out
what's the best way to speak to make
sure the receiver can understand. And
that's also what I learned from watching
Pops in the Pull Pit. You know what I
mean? Depending upon the sermon, I'm
gonna change my energy to make sure you
can receive it. If I'm preaching about
tithing, I might be a little bit more
gentle. If I'm preaching about, you
know, changing your life radically, I
might be a little more passionate. So,
learning how to change the way you speak
and communicate so people can receive.
>> And so, how does that translate to
talking about sports because I because I
will say I've been watching you for
years and you know, you clearly have a
different approach. I mean, it it is the
thing that Bob Iger saw with the guy in
the pink suit. you know, you you pop
differently, not just because of the
suit, but because of your presentation.
The way that you present is very um
>> it's the pulpit, like you know,
>> how do you translate that to sports? And
how do you translate it specifically to
speak easy, which is your new show,
>> man? Speak easy, a different entity, so
I'll get to that.
>> Yeah.
>> Translating it into sports, man. It's
sports is almost like catching the wind.
Which way do you need to speak to make
sure like you're hitting people where
you need to hit them? Everybody says we
don't like debate. We don't like debate.
That's a lie. Debate rates. Yeah.
>> So you do like debate.
>> Now you might not like the certain
debater, right? But you like debate
because debate rates. You als in sport
you have to learn how to be like more
explosive. You have to learn how to be a
little bit more inflammatory. But on
social media, in sport, everybody thinks
they know everything. You can find
somebody that thinks they know more
about baseball than A-Rod on social
media right now. Yes. You know what I
mean? like EA22999
like they right now they think they know
more about baseball than this person
>> is very familiar with this
>> right so in on social media I don't try
to teach on social media I try to say
hey here's what I found what do you
>> oh interesting
>> if I try to say this is what they're
doing they'll be like well that's not
what they're doing cuz my high school
coach told nah social media is different
social media is like hey I'm going to
show y'all this and what do y'all think
and That's how you try to manipulate
that algorithm. Also realizing though
Instagram X and Tik Tok are also all
different.
>> So you can't just think you can
communicate even in sports in one
sizefits-all
way. The only way is being true to you
and figuring out how do you manipulate
what's true to you into that platform or
that network or that device.
>> And so tell us about speak easy. How
does this come about? I mean, the the
origin story, we know enough to be
dangerous about it that your your gig
ends at FS1.
>> Yeah.
>> 24 hours later,
>> bro. Um, I haven't shared the details of
this story. Um, but it's a safe space,
>> okay?
>> So, let's buckle up.
>> Let's do it.
>> Um, I am in Paris on vacation. I get a
call from my agent and my agent says,
"Hey, Fox is canceling all LA based
sports shows, daily shows." I'm like,
"Wait, what the hell?" Yeah, Fox is
canceling all of them. So, now I'm I'm
shocked. I'm literally like in Paris
chilling. While in Paris, two
interesting things happened. One person
came up to me cuz I used to be on a show
called Speak for Yourself. They said,
"Yo, Ao, I love you on Speak for
Yourself." I was like, "I haven't done
that show in years. I was currently
A-Rod on a show called The Facility."
Another person came up to me, "Yo, Acho,
I love you on the faculty." I'm like,
"It's The Facility." So that taught me
two things after realizing my show had
been cancelled. Hey Acho, if you create
another show, leverage the four years of
IP you built into speak for yourself. So
if you're going to create another show,
put speak into the title.
>> Ah,
>> now I looked at the market of sports
television. I said, where are the
vacancies in the sports TV market? The
vacancies at night.
>> I live in California. Games, prime time
games end at 8:00. Yo, Ach, you can go
live at night. Okay, if you're going to
do a show at night and you're going to
put speak in the title, what the hell do
you call it?
Speak easy. Sophisticated sports talk.
Okay, great. Well, now how are you going
to do it?
>> By the way, this is all happening in
like
>> real time.
>> Okay.
>> I like no time to mourn, no time to cry,
it's time to get to work. And so, okay,
where's the vacancy? It's at night. Show
title. Speak easy. Okay, now how are you
going to do it? Acho, build a show so
nice that you can sell it to network
immediately. Don't do nothing on your
laptop with some little, you know, logo
behind you, the Emanuel Ao show, and
you're doing it, you know, from your
mom's basement. No, build a
state-of-the-art studio that a Netflix,
a Peacock, a Paramount Plus exec can
look at and say, "Yo, we can light green
light that right now." Because now I can
go to network and say, "Don't worry
about hair. Don't worry about makeup.
Don't worry about wardrobe. Don't worry
about studio costs. Don't worry about
production costs. Don't even worry about
talent costs. I got all of that. I have
proof of concept. You give me a boatload
of money, I'll give you a show. The
dilemma is from when the show got
cancelled on July 14th until season
starting September 4th, A-Rod had 54
days. I got 54 days to think of a name,
find a studio, built out a studio, find
talent, hire talent, negotiate with
talent, relocate some talent cuz they
lived in New York, find a team, find a
production team, buy all the right
cameras, and then buy all the right
furniture to uh to furnish the studio.
You got 54 days cuz you're launching
week one because it's the Cowboys versus
the Eagles on Thursday night, September
4th. Go. And I looked at it like a game.
What do I mean by that? I looked at it
and I said, "Okay, if Fox is going to
give you money to leave, but it's not
going to be the same money you were
going to make for the year." All right,
Acho, can you make as much money as you
were making in your one year at Fox by
taking this money and taking these
social media feeds
>> because that was part of it. Like when I
let walked away from Fox, I walked away
with the social media feeds from my
show. Which means I walked away with 2.6
million YouTube subscribers, 1.4 4
million Facebook subscribers, 720,000
Instagram subscribers, 500,000 Twitter
subscribers, and 400,000 Tik Tok
subscribers. That's real currency.
>> Yeah.
>> People don't realize like that's
currency. So, can you take those
followers and can you take this money
and can you build something that will
make you money?
>> How did you get to hang on to that
>> negotiation?
Like, can you take this followers, this
money, and can you build something? Bro,
within 14 days of starting the show, I
had a seven figureure offer.
>> Let's back up. That That's a beautiful
story, but I really want to get into the
mental side of this.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, you said 54 days.
>> Walk us through. Now you're in day 24.
Is it more excitement,
anxiety, nervous? Are you looking for
investors?
>> Are you waking up in the middle of the
night, go speak easy, is that the right
name or the wrong name?
>> Great qu Oh,
I like good questions.
I was never excited.
>> Never. I was only ever scared and I was
only ever anxious. But when you're
scared, just do it anyway. I was never
excited.
>> Really?
>> Never. Um, never.
>> Why?
>> I was scared.
>> One, what if the idea is not good? Two,
what if it doesn't work? Three, you're
hemorrhaging money until you're not?
>> Four, what if you can't get all these
contracts done? Five, what if you can't
start on time? Six, what if people hate
it?
>> Only ever scared? How in the world did I
kind of move forward? Day 24, I had a
couple issues. I need to find somewhere
to build a studio out. And then you have
to all lot like seven days for ish to go
wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> You know what I mean? Like that's why I
love being able to share my story
because I tell people all the time, I'm
not that talented.
>> So the people that are watching, you sit
across from a cat whose parents came to
America with nothing and is just
figuring it out. I'm not that talented.
I just work really hard and I'm
resourceful. So day 24, I'm coming up
with backup plans in case my first plans
go completely ary. That's day 24. Um I I
laid things out, A-Rod. I said, "Okay,
Ao, let's work backwards. If you want to
launch by September 4th, then you need
to have the studio be done being built
out by the last week in August so that
you can rehearse the last week in
August, which means you need to start
construction three weeks before the last
week in August, which means you need to
know your talent four weeks before
that." So I'm starting to work
backwards. So now that you work
backwards, who's going to be your
general contractor? Who's going to be
your designer? Where are you going to
get the furniture? And then acho, you
cannot afford to sleep. You just can't
afford to sleep because you don't have
time to sleep. So if every if something
fails, it stops with you. And I had to
do little stuff like delete all the
Facebook posts on the previous account
that I was taking over. 30,000 Facebook
posts. I'm enter tab, enter, down,
enter, enter, tab, enter, down, enter,
enter, tab, enter, down, enter, enter,
tab, enter. I got to do all that.
>> You feel me? So, not only do I have to
ideulate all of this show and then
negotiate all of this show, of which I
did all by myself, mind you, like
there's no agent, just me and chat GPT.
So, of which I did all by myself. You
also have to do the the mundane work
like deleting social media posts from an
account you're taking over.
>> What about talent? How do you identify
that?
>> That's the most fun part. Identifying
talent is how you win. It's how you win
in sports. It's how you win in anything.
Identifying talent is how you win.
Getting the right roster. There was a
kid that came up to me. His name was
Kieran. He came up to me in 2023 at a
track meet in New York. Yo, Acho, big
fan of yours, man. I do some stuff on
social media, bro. You know what I mean?
Like just a big fan of yours. I grew up
in Dallas. Cool. Nice to meet you.
>> Yeah.
>> Over the last two years, I saw a couple
of his videos going viral. I wake up JK.
I wake up A-Rod after doing the show. I
was like, what was that kid's name
again? I searched one of the videos. I
didn't remember his name. I just
searched like viral video of this
athlete knowing he had done the viral
video. Uh, I hit him up. Hey yo, I'm
starting something. Let's hop on a Zoom.
At first, he's like, man, I'm working
for this company, working for that
company. I can't do it. I said, what's
your price? Everybody got a price. And
I'm also like, if you nail the show
right, Acho, the money will come. Forget
the money. If you get the talent right,
the money will come. So, I go and I get
him and he ends up being kind of like
the sidekick co-host. And then Lehan
McCoy, Philadelphia,
>> he's the guy behind the bar.
>> He's the guy behind the bar.
>> Then Lean McCoy, Eagles Hall of Famer.
We've worked together the last five
years. We were teammates back in 2012.
Yeah. So I was like, "Okay, you get
Shady." Because Shady is the big sports
name.
>> Acho, you're the brains behind the
talent. He's always
>> He is a vibe.
>> He's a vibe. He's the sports name. Ao,
you're the talent. The Sidekick speaks
to the younger generation. There are a
lot of shows on social media. We're a
show for social media. And there's a
huge difference, a gigantic difference.
Any show can be on social media, but not
any show can be made for social media.
And so I got the Care Bear Karen dude
because he's young, 900,000 on TikTok.
He speaks to that demographic. He's been
doing stuff on social media. I got a
dude named Social Trey. I keep him on
camera. So Social Trey, his name's Trey.
He just runs Social, so call him Social
Trey. He sits on his laptop.
>> He's literally like in the corner.
>> He's in the corner. A-Rod, he's in the
corner on his laptop. He's chatting with
people during the show. If there's ever
a poll, I'll be like, "Hey, Social Trey,
drop a poll. Is A-Rod the greatest
ranger of all time? Drop the comments.
Drop it in right now. Right now. Right
now." And then he'll see the comments
like, "Oh, Acho, I gotta interrupt you.
I gotta interrupt you. The poll results
are in." Yeah. D. And he'll interrupt
me. Yo, Acho, we got a super chat. Super
chat is somebody pays for their comment
to be seen on YouTube. So, he is
literally on the show specifically to be
the social media's voice on the show.
So, I didn't make a show on social
media. I made a show for social media.
Cuz if you went on social media, network
will come.
>> So, wait, wait. So, let me get this
straight. So, you have fans that'll log
in to watch your show. They can pay like
five, ten bucks to ask a question. How
does that work?
>> They can pay up to yesterday we got a
$100 super chat. Wow. And all it does is
it puts their qu it puts their comment
whatever they say at the top of the
YouTube chat. There's a whole YouTube
discourse going down. So it puts their
comment at the top of the chat and they
just pay for their comment to be seen. I
have a guy specifically dedicated to
interacting with those people. Then I
have a camera specifically dedicated to
him.
>> Yeah.
>> During the show, first two weeks of the
show, he wasn't on camera. Hey, Rod. I'm
just But I kept yelling off camera for
them. Hey yo, can you make a poll? And I
was like, wait a second, Acho,
>> just put them on camera.
>> So, in terms of of creating it for
social, how do you how do you keep it
looking around the corner? You've talked
about that a lot. Like, what So, what
are you seeing now that you know you
want to do and just haven't been able to
do yet?
>> A lot of things. But remember, the very
first thing we started this conversation
with was do not overextend. Yeah. Right
now, Emanuel Lacho's financing
everything. I bought the cameras. Um, I
bought the set design. Like, I put in
probably
$300,000 into everything, all things
considered. And mind you, I'm paying all
talent. So, I'm sole owner of it, paying
talent salaries. But what I realized was
this. If you look at ESPN and Fox, the
two primary sports shows, daily sports
right now, over 50% of their content
from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. is shows that are
produced that are licensed back to
network. That's not the future.
>> It's the present.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not like in some distance. It's
happening right now. 50% of the content.
>> 50%.
>> So, with that being said, that's the
present. So, I said, "Wait a second,
Aacho. Just build it.
>> They're already coming. Not they will
come. Furthermore, where's the market
going? Oh, Netflix. You want to get more
into live sports? Oh, you ain't got a
sports show. I can save you a headache
and a whole bunch of money. I'll just do
it for you." And then rather than going
to Netflix with different note cards and
hey look at my slide presentation. Hey
here's a show I want to sell you on. So
I'm going to sit here and this is going
to person's going to be here. I know you
have to build it. It's going to cost you
a couple hundred thous. No no no no.
It's done.
>> Built done.
>> It's built. It's done. Like just cut me
the check. It's done. And so seeing
around corners looks like where's the
market going? What's the market need?
Anticipate those needs.
>> What is exactly the business model? And
is the business model one that you're
hoping to tread water until the big fish
comes and you can land a Netflix or
Amazon?
>> And at what point are you thinking about
raising capital if ever?
>> Great question. Um I was offered
capital. I said no. Reason being I'm
sitting on a gold mine. Hell no. Like
y'all stay over here. I don't need the
capital because I don't want to have to
dilute what I got going. Phenomenal
question on are you going to tread
water? There's several different
business problems when you start a show
on social. Number one, you can exist and
make a boatload of money off your
sponsors, right? So, like right now, I
landed the seven figure deal that will
essentially cover 90% of my cost. Grace
of God, I landed it within two weeks of
starting the show.
>> That's a sponsorship type deal.
>> Sponsorship type deal. Like, that's
crazy. There's YouTube ad revenue, those
sponsorship deals. Those are your
primary ways to to make your money. All
while simultaneously, A-Rod, the reason
you built the show so nice, AO,
remember, land a streamer. I didn't
build the show to exclusively stay on
social. If I did that, I could have just
got my laptop, done it super cheap.
Yeah.
>> Instead, I built a studio. I built like
a real like state-of-the-art type studio
so that a streamer can yo, oh, that's
nice. Green lit.
>> Right.
>> Now that I know my cost, if my costs are
X, if I can make Y, then your money is
that that difference between that Y and
that X. Whereas when I'm just working
for Fox or working for network, this is
your salary. But bro, now that you now
that I'm an owner, it's so interesting
because I'm like, okay, wait. Kacho,
this is your expenses for the year. So
now this is the number to break you even
and anything above that you're making
money.
>> Figure out how to go make money. And now
you eat what you kill. And ain't nothing
better in life than living with a eat
what you kill model if you know how to
go kill. You know what I mean?
>> And so how does that feel to you at at
this point? I mean it's it feels like
you said you weren't excited. Feels like
you might be excited.
Um, but the reason I'm excited now is
often times people don't get to see the
light at the end of the tunnel.
>> You just got to walk through the tunnel
in the dark and trust you're going to
see light. I've gotten to see light at
the end of the tunnel
>> quickly.
>> Incredibly quickly. That's why I'm
excited. Otherwise, it would just be a
long, arduous journey. But I'll say this
just for those listening. The three
things I learned. If you want to start
like a million-doll business, find a
billion-dollar corporation sports. The
second thing I learned was, is there a
vacancy a part of that corporation? Oh,
nighttime sports show. And then the
third thing, are you do you have an
inherent access point? Do you have an
inherent advantage? My advantage, I was
starting with 5.3 million subscribers
across all channels.
>> So, you want to make a million, find the
billion. Then is there competition in
that million of the billion that you're
finding? If there's not, exist there.
And then lastly, do you have an inherent
advantage? If you can check all three of
those boxes, I suggest it's not that
complicated. It's just difficult.
>> Yeah. So, three names, Pat McAfee,
Stephen A. Smith, Bill Simmons. Are any
of those three kind of the northstar of
what you're trying to build? If not,
who?
>> I'd probably say
an amalgamation of all three. Here's
why. And I don't use that as a copout.
Um, I was reading a book called The
Hidden Habits of Genius. And The Hidden
Habits of Genius just looked at
different geniuses suggested throughout
the history of mankind. And geniuses
synthesize information. Can you find the
invisible connective tissue between
different things? The reason I did speak
easy, speak easy instead of the Emanuel
Lacho show, the Pat McAfee show. I don't
always have to host it. Uh,
>> so you can sell speak easy one day, find
a really good host, slot them in the
chair. Then I can go do speak easy,
sophisticated political talk. I ain't
got to host it. You've already built the
model. Then I can go speak easy
sophisticated pop culture talk. Hosted
for a year, get out the chair. If you
name the show after you, you got to be
the show.
>> Yeah.
>> So the reason I didn't name the show
after me was because, oh, I don't always
want to be the show. That's why I said
an amalgamation of all of them. You know
what I mean? Like McAfee is brilliant. I
think he's one of the first to have ever
done it. But McAfee is the McAfee show.
>> He can never stop. He is the brand.
>> The social media channels of his show
are his. He's the brand. I did that with
uncomfortable conversations. I didn't
want to do that again.
>> And so whereas Simmons, he isn't
necessarily the brand. He created the
brand,
>> the ringer.
>> Exactly. Right. So that was kind of my
thought process. So, I'm glad you
mentioned uncomfortable conversations
because it's really, I have to say, one
of the first times I really encountered
you. Uncomfortable Conversations with a
Black Man,
I feel like took you to an whole other
level, like a a different universe, a
different galaxy. So, distill it down
for us if you can, like what happened.
>> Uh, uncomfortable conversations got me
into the Matrix.
>> Yeah,
>> it got me into the Matrix. Changed my
life. Um,
5 days after George Floyd gets murdered,
I start a show. I'm in Austin, Texas,
and I rent a studio space, and I say,
"Hey, Emanuel, uh, you should just go
talk and answer a lot of questions in
society right now that people are
asking. Hey, why are black people
rioting? Why can black people say the
n-word, but white people can't? Um, what
is going on society?" And I was like,
"Okay, Emanuel, you should do this." I
was going to do it with the sweet white
friend of mine, but at the last second,
my white friend got cold feet. So, I
said, "Emanuel, you got to do it
yourself." At first it was going to be
questions white people have. That was
going to be the name of the show.
Terrible grain. Um, but as she's driving
down she's like, "Yo, Emanuel, it's not
just white people have questions. Why
don't you change the title? Maybe
uncomfortable conversations." Cuz I was
like, "Uncomfortable conversations. It
just doesn't stick." I walk by a mirror.
I look to the right. I walk back by the
mirror. I look to the left. You're a
black man. Uncomfortable conversations
with a black man. So, we do that. Now, I
don't have anybody to shoot it. I don't
have a beautiful video team that y'all
can't see that's behind all these
cameras. But, I knew somebody that was a
wedding videographer. wedding
videographer said, "Hey, yo, bro, can
you come shoot this thing?" I go to this
all-white studio space. I shoot this
episode. Within five days, it had 25
million views. I have direct messages
from the likes of uh uh Reese
Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston. Everybody
in their mom has now hit me up. I don't
know what to do. I got a call from a
no-aller ID number. I pick it up. Ao
mccane speaking. I want to have a
conversation. I said, MCC like like
Matthew McConna. He's like, I want to
have a conversation. And I was like,
"All right, uh, let's do it in 3 4
days." He says, "How about tomorrow?" I
was like, "Uh, now the thing about it,
A-Rod, I didn't want to follow up cuz
how the hell do you follow up? 25
million views." You don't. But MCA says
he wants to do it tomorrow. We do it
tomorrow. Me and Mccane, Matthew
McConna, we sit down to do the next
episode. I get a call 5 days later from
another no caller ID number. Hi,
Emanuel. Oprah Winfrey speaking. I'm
like, Oprah, like Oprah, Oprah,
>> Oprah, Oprah.
>> She said, um, Emanuel, do you have time
to FaceTime later today? I said, do I
have time?
you have time. We hop on FaceTime. She's
sitting in her kitchen. She asked me one
question. She says, "Emanuel, what is
your intention?" I said, "Oprah, my
intention is to change the world. I
truly believe I can. I'm currently
working on writing a book." She said,
"Books? I love books." Um, so Oprah and
I partnered together to write
Uncomfortable Conversations with a Black
Man, number three on the bestseller
list. Uncomfortable Conversations with a
Black Boy. I've since written
Uncomfortable Conversations with a Jew,
number three on the bestsellers list.
I'm the only person not named Oprah to
have more than one book under the Oprah
imprint. So, I wrote my books under the
Oprah imprint. After that, boom, life
changes. I end up hosting The Bachelor.
I end up moving into corporate America.
I've spoken for every corporation.
Michael Jordan calls me and they fly me
to Seapport, New York, and I speak to
everybody at Jordan Brand, Jordan
included,
>> um, just about all of these different
things. And so it was one of those
things. The reason I say I entered into
the matrix was because uncomfortable
conversations was what put me into
society in a manner that's I couldn't
imagine. Changed my life. Changed my
life.
>> What is it like when you pick up the
phone and it's Oprah on the other I mean
she say
like what what is that?
Um
you know what, bro?
None of those moments moved me because I
was in such a period of life where I was
like, "Acho, steward it well."
>> I would just walk down Beverly Hills
because I lived in LA then at the time.
I moved from Austin and I was ao steward
it well. Steward it well. Like be a good
steward of it. Like is this is not about
you. Be a good steward of it. So when
Oprah called, it was cool. McCane
called, it was cool. Justin Bieber came
up to me. It was cool. But it was just
ao steward it well. Like do not do not
miss the mission. Do not miss the
moment. Like you're a man on a mission.
You're a man who meant a moment. Steward
it well.
>> So
>> that's got to be your dad, right?
>> Probably. And my faith
>> and my faith. So
>> it's all been cool. It's all been
special. We've done a lot of great
things. I mean, how the heck we started
TV, we got two Emmys. You know what I
mean? Like,
>> but that's why I'm like, this is above
me. This is if you work very hard at
what you do and if you work very smart
at what you do and if you're incredibly
resourceful with what you do, you will
find success at what you do.
>> All right, so this is where we do rapid
fire. 10 questions. We'll bounce it back
and forth. You ready?
>> Let's go.
>> All right. What's one word to describe
your deal making style?
>> Strategic.
>> What's more important to you, gut or
data?
>> Oo, that's a good question. Data.
>> Who's your dream deal making partner?
>> Uh, let's say magic. What's the best
piece of advice you received on deal
making or business?
>> Bet on brains.
>> What's the worst advice you've been
given?
>> Huh? That's a good freaking question.
Um, you can't do it.
>> What's a deal that you wish you had
done?
>> I don't want to live in regret.
So, I'm gonna say none, but I had the
opportunity to host The Bachelor in
perpetuity, and I'm always curious what
that would have looked like had I done
it.
>> Interesting. Do you have a dream guest
on Uncomfortable Conversations, who
isn't?
>> No, my dream guest is whoever meets the
moment in time. So, there's no there's
no dream guest.
>> You can only watch one sport for the
rest of your life.
>> Oh, here's the thing, A-Rod. You got to
qualify. Game seven.
>> Game seven or Super Bowl or the
Olympics?
>> You know what I mean? If I'm only
watching one sport, football. But if
you're telling me like the Olympics, I
take the Olympics.
>> Which sport?
>> Track. Okay. Done. I'm watching track
and field. I'm watching the 4x4 meter
relay.
>> What team do you want to see win a
championship more than any?
>> The San Francisco 49ers.
>> What's your advice for someone who wants
a career just like yours?
>> Don't have a career like yours.
>> There you go.
>> All right. Emanuel, thank you so much.
This was so much fun.
>> Thank you. Thank you, man. This is
great.
[Music]